---

copyright:
  years: 2019, 2022
lastupdated: "2022-08-18"

keywords: admin, superuser, roles, service credentials, cassandra, datastax, dse, managing datastax, managing cassandra, datastax user

subcollection: databases-for-cassandra

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:external: .external target="_blank"}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:screen: .screen}
{:tip: .tip}


# Creating and managing users, roles, and privileges 
{: #user-management}

{{site.data.keyword.databases-for-cassandra_full}} uses a system of roles to manage database permissions. Roles are used to give a single user or a group of users a set of privileges. 

When you provision a new deployment in {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}, you are automatically given an admin user to access and manage {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-cassandra}}.

User management is described in continued detail in the DataStax [public documentation here](https://docs.datastax.com/en/security/6.0/security/secConfigAuthTOC.html){: external}.

## The `admin` user
{: #user-management-admin}

When you provision a new deployment in {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}, you are automatically given an admin user to access and manage {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-cassandra}}. Once you [set the admin password](/docs/databases-for-cassandra?topic=databases-for-cassandra-admin-password), you can use it to connect to your {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-cassandra}} deployment.

## The `ibm` User
{: #user-management-ibm}

If you use the shell to list the users on your deployment, you might notice a user that is named `ibm`. 
The `ibm` account is the only superuser on your deployment. A superuser account is not available for you to use. This user is an internal administrative account that manages replication, metrics, and other functions to ensure the stability of your deployment. Changing or deleting to the `ibm` user is not advised as it disrupts the stability of your deployment.

## Users who are created through the CLI and the API
{: #user-management-cli-api}

Users that you create through the Cloud Databases API and the Cloud Databases CLI are able to log in, create users, and create databases.

Any user who is created by using the Service Credentials UI, API, or CLI has the same privileges as the admin user. When a user creates a resource in a database, like a table, all users that are in the same group have access to that resource. Resources that are created by any of the users are accessible to other users in the group, including the admin user. 

By creating users and roles by using the database functions, you can build more granular access. This procedure is outlined in the DataStax [Database roles documentation here](https://docs.datastax.com/en/cql-oss/3.3/cql/cql_using/useSecureRoles.html){: external}. 

Users that are created directly from the API and CLI do not appear in _Service Credentials_, but you can [add them](#creating-users-in-service-credentials) if you choose.

## More Users and Connection Strings
{: #user-management-add-users-conn-strings}

Access to your {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-cassandra}} deployment is not limited to the admin user. You can create users by using the _Service Credentials_ pane, the {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} CLI, or through the {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} API. 

All users on your deployment can use the connection strings, including connection strings for either public or private endpoints.

When you create a user, it is assigned certain database roles and privileges. These privileges include the ability to log in, create databases, and create other users. For more information, see the [Managing Users, Roles, and Privileges](/docs/databases-for-cassandra?topic=databases-for-cassandra-user-management) page.

### Creating Users in _Service Credentials_
{: #creating-users-in-service-credentials}

1. Navigate to the service dashboard for your service.
2. Click _Service Credentials_ to open the _Service Credentials_ pane.
3. Click **New Credential**.
4. Choose a descriptive name for your new credential. 
5. (Optional) Specify whether the new credentials use a public or private endpoint. Use either `{ "service-endpoints": "public" }` / `{ "service-endpoints": "private" }` in the _Add Inline Configuration Parameters_ field to generate connection strings that use the specified endpoint. Use of the endpoint is not enforced. It just controls which hostnames are in the connection strings. Public endpoints are generated by default.
6. Click **Add** to provision the new credentials. A username and password, and an associated database user in the {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-cassandra}} database are auto-generated.

The new credentials appear in the table, and the connection strings are available as JSON in a click-to-copy field under _View Credentials_.

Service credentials example

```sh
{
  "connection": {
    "secure": {
      "authentication": {
        "method": "direct",
        "password": "03ba3aed7559482de785ff6b4cf3728f207402e81d3ac116fae01fa98bea7c83",
        "username": "ibm_cloud_389ef649_ebeb_46cb_b7d9_7cdea4934058"
      },
      "bundle": {
        "bundle_base64": "UEsDBBQAAAAIAKeA51CHsQ5LTBUAAEcVAAAIAAAAY2VydC5wZngBRxW46jCCFUMCAQMwghUPBgkqh
        kiG9w0BBwGgghUABIIU/DCCFPgwgg+vBgkqhkiG9w0BBwaggg+gMIIPnAIBADCCD5UGCSqGSIb3DQEHATAcBgoqhkiG9w0B
        DAEGMA4ECDiG6o//9YQIAgIIAICCD2j6zdZ9p8Z0EEKu/ZYI62WGsc2L5KNnJoNOm2eRm0icibFcpj2VebqaPp4bwj+OatU
        pvP3dy+aw54AccLktzUttN2w7bCGv8iUpD3hWYuTjSAsPcJ/U...
                /*** [Redacted] ***/
        ...+8GE6Mf57Xilyczv35uMxQZ2MNaoIGMWJnq4s9l2VBglF5zvonq9m4lCI4FGsrBMn5yhWKgTezXzBBebSPH2hIW5dDUg
        O0eBlxs75NWt+P9tITfGwBhYVtOyXcebcP2dplkFgGyYadIBWdL8X6c7zPpiqLVr6DyQ6IahycxTBVUrJa2bkgL4IAABUD
        wAABwAAAAAAAAABAAAApIFnOAAAY2EuY2VydFBLAQI0AxQAAAAIAKeA51BG87H8vggAAFQPAAAGAAAAAAAAAAEAAACkgUpB
        AABjYS5jcnRQSwECNAMUAAAACACngOdQmBQflKMGAAChCQAABAAAAAAAAAABAAAApIEsSgAAY2VydFBLBQYAAAAACAAIALE
        BAADxUAAAAAA=",
        "name": "bundle.zip"
      },
      "hosts": [
        {
          "hostname": "fd21c05e-28db-4858-9d8f-66651da81d74.bktg0ujl08k42osvn5ig.databases.appdomain.cloud",
          "port": 31868
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "instance_administration_api": {
    "deployment_id": "crn:v1:staging:public:databases-for-cassandra-development:eu-gb:a/
    b9552134280015ebfde430a819fa4bb3:fd21c05e-28db-4858-9d8f-66651da81d74::",
    "instance_id": "crn:v1:staging:public:databases-for-cassandra-development:eu-gb:a/
    b9552134280015ebfde430a819fa4bb3:fd21c05e-28db-4858-9d8f-66651da81d74::",
    "root": "https://api.dev.eu-gb.databases.cloud.ibm.com/v4/ibm"
  }
}
```

Command: 
```sh
echo 'pasted bundle contents' | base64 -D > formation_id_endpoint_type.zip
```
{: pre}

### Creating Users from the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} CLI
{: #user-management-create-users-cli}

To manage your service through the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} CLI and the [Cloud Databases plug-in](/docs/cli?topic=cli-install-ibmcloud-cli), create a new user with `cdb user-create`. For example, to create a new user for an "example-deployment", use the following command.
```sh
ibmcloud cdb user-create example-deployment <newusername> <newpassword>
```
{: pre}

Once the task finishes, you can retrieve the new user's connection strings with the `ibmcloud cdb deployment-connections` command.

### Creating Users from the API
{: #user-management-create-users-api}

The _Foundation Endpoint_ that is shown on the _Overview_ pane of your service provides the base URL to access this deployment through the API. To create and manage users, use the base URL with the `/users` endpoint.
```curl
curl -X POST 'https://api.{region}.databases.cloud.ibm.com/v4/ibm/deployments/{id}/users' \
-H "Authorization: Bearer $APIKEY" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{"username":"jane_smith", "password":"newsupersecurepassword"}'
```
{: pre}

Once the task finishes, you can retrieve the new user's connection strings, from the `/users/{userid}/connections` endpoint.

### Adding users to _Service Credentials_
{: #user-management-add-users-serve-cred}

Creating a new user from the CLI doesn't automatically populate that user's connection strings into _Service Credentials_. To add them there, create a new credential with the existing user information.

Enter the username and password in the JSON field _Add Inline Configuration Parameters_, or specify a file where the JSON information is stored. For example, putting `{"existing_credentials":{"username":"Robert","password":"supersecure"}}` in the field generates _Service Credentials_ with the username "Robert" and password "supersecure" filled into connection strings.

Generating credentials from an existing user does not check for or create that user.
{: tip}

### The CLI Section
{: #user-management-cli-section}

#### CQLSH example
{: #user-management-cqlsh-example}

Specify the local file path to the `<formation_id>_<endpoint_type>.zip` file that you downloaded from your {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-cassandra}} Connections pane. For more information, see [Getting Connection Strings](/docs/databases-for-cassandra?topic=databases-for-cassandra-connection-strings).

```sh
./bin/cqlsh -u username -p password -b /path/to/secure-connect-database_name.zip
```
{: pre}

More details on connecting with CQLSH are in the [DataStax documentation](https://docs.datastax.com/en/dse/6.8/cql/cql/cql_using/startCqlshStandalone.html){: external}. 

#### Java example
{: #user-management-java-example}

Specify the local file path to the `<formation_id>_<endpoint_type>.zip` file that you downloaded from your {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-cassandra}} Connections pane. For more imformation, see [Getting Connection Strings](/docs/databases-for-cassandra?topic=databases-for-cassandra-connection-strings).

```sh
.withCloudSecureConnectBundle(Paths.get(getSecureConnectionBundlePath()))
```
{: pre}

Set the username and password for your {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-cassandra}} database
```sh
.withAuthCredentials(getUserName(),getPassword())
```
{: pre}

For more information, see the [DataStax documentation](https://docs.datastax.com/en/developer/java-driver-dse/2.3/manual/cloud/){: external}.
